[docs] Make migration doc easier to follow (#26948)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/guides/migration-v4/migration-v4.md

## Update React & TypeScript version

- The minimum supported version of **React** was increased from v16.8.0 to v17.0.0.
- The minimum supported version of **TypeScript** was increased from v3.2 to v3.5.

  > We try to align with types released from [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) (i.e. packages published on npm under the `@types` namespace).
  > We will not change the minimum supported version in a major version of Material-UI.
  > However, we generally recommend to not use a TypeScript version older than the [lowest supported version of DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped#older-versions-of-typescript-33-and-earlier)

**Note:** if your project includes these packages, please upgrade them to the `latest` version.

- `react-scripts`
- `@types/react`
- `@types/react-dom`

> 📝 Please make sure that your application is still **running** without error and **commit** the change before continuing the next step.

> ## `ThemeProvider` Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `ThemeProvider` setup
```

## Update Material-UI version

To use the `next` version of Material-UI.

> 💡 If you want to use Material-UI v5 with **styled-components** instead of emotion, check out [the installation guide](/getting-started/installation/#npm)

```sh
npm install @material-ui/core@next @emotion/react @emotion/styled

// or with `yarn`
yarn add @material-ui/core@next @emotion/react @emotion/styled
```

**Optional** if your project includes `@material-ui/icons` and/or `@material-ui/lab`, use the `next` version of them.

```sh
npm install @material-ui/icons@next @material-ui/lab@next

// or with `yarn`
yarn add @material-ui/icons@next @material-ui/lab@next
```

> **Note:** if you are using `@material-ui/pickers`, it has moved to `@material-ui/lab`. The details is in "Handling breaking changes" section.

In this migration process, you will need to install/update `@material-ui/styles` (JSS) for temporary transition to v5.

```sh
npm install @material-ui/styles@next

// or with `yarn`
yarn add @material-ui/styles@next
```

> ⚠️ After this step, your application is expected to crash because the style library has changed from **JSS (v4)** to **emotion (v5)**.

> ## Run Codemod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run codemods
```

We have prepared these codemods to ease your migration experience.

### preset-safe

> This codemod contains most of the transformers that are useful for migration. (**This codemod is not idempotent, it should be applied only once per folder**)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This codemod contains most of the transformers that are useful for migration. (**This codemod  should be applied only once per folder**)
```
unnecessary jargon

This documentation page covers the _how_ of migrating from v4 to v5.
The _why_ will be covered in an upcoming blog post on Medium.

## Migration Steps

> - [Update React & TypeScript](#update-react-&-typescript-version)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Update React & TypeScript](#update-react-amp-typescript-version)
```

> - [ThemeProvider Setup](#themeprovider-setup)

Reviewer: Capitalization convention

```suggestion
- [ThemeProvider setup](#themeprovider-setup)
```

x the other headers

- [Update Material-UI](#update-material-ui-version)
- [Run Codemod](#run-codemod)

>   - [🪄 preset-safe](#preset-safe)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [🪄 preset-safe](#🪄preset-safe)
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe 
```suggestion
  - [preset-safe](#preset-safe)
```

I see this on both the link and the header
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4512430/125440589-926f2c85-0b69-4856-ab06-4198807cfd56.png)

Author: okay, will remove the emoji.

  - [variant-prop (optional)](#variant-prop)
  - [link-underline-hover (optional)](#link-underline-hover)
- [Handling Breaking Changes](#handling-breaking-changes)
- [Migrate `makeStyles` to emotion](#migrate-makestyles-to-emotion)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

> > 🛎 always create small commit on any changes to help the migration goes smoother.

Reviewer: How about?

```suggestion
> 💡 Prefer to create small commits on any changes to help the migration goes smoother.
```

> Please check [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section, if you encounter any issue or [create an issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/new?assignees=&labels=status%3A+needs+triage&template=1.bug.md) with this title format `[Migration] Summary of your issue`.

> ## **Update React & TypeScript version**

Reviewer: The bold headers look strange.

```suggestion
### Update React & TypeScript version
```

x the others

- The minimum supported version of **React** was increased from v16.8.0 to v17.0.0.
- The minimum supported version of **TypeScript** was increased from v3.2 to v3.5.

  > We try to align with types released from [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) (i.e. packages published on npm under the `@types` namespace).
  > We will not change the minimum supported version in a major version of Material-UI.
  > However, we generally recommend to not use a TypeScript version older than the [lowest supported version of DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped#older-versions-of-typescript-33-and-earlier)

**Note:** if your project includes these packages, please upgrade them to the `latest` version.

- `react-scripts`
- `@types/react`
- `@types/react-dom`

> ✅ Please make sure that your application is still **running** without error and **commit** the change before continuing the next step.

## **`ThemeProvider` Setup**

> Make sure that `MuiThemeProvider` is defined at the root of your application (even if you are using the **default theme**) and **NO** `useStyles` is called before `<MuiThemeProvider>`.

Reviewer: I thought we renamed it:

```suggestion
Make sure that `ThemeProvider` is defined at the root of your application (even if you are using the **default theme**) and **NO** `useStyles` is called before `<ThemeProvider>`.
```

Reviewer: I would also explain why, to not confuse developers. It's for the ones that will keep using `@material-ui/styles`. So maybe the import should be from `@material-ui/styles`, not `@material-ui/core/styles`.

Author: This step is still on v4 so I think `MuiThemeProvider` is required.

Reviewer 3: +1 for the name. I would leave the import from `@material-ui/core/styles` as it contains also the emotion/styled-components' theme context. Otherwise, for the core components, they would need to anyway change it later.

Reviewer 3: > This step is still on v4 so I think MuiThemeProvider is required.

Importing `ThemeProvider` from `@material-ui/core/styles` should work in v4 too.

Author: updated to `ThemeProvider`

```js
import {
  MuiThemeProvider,
  createMuiTheme,
  makeStyles,
} from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const theme = createMuiTheme();

const useStyles = makeStyles((theme) => {
  root: {
    // some css that access to theme
  }
});

function App() {
  const classes = useStyles(); // ❌ If you have this, consider moving <ThemeProvider> to HOC and wrap the App
  return <MuiThemeProvider theme={theme}>{children}</MuiThemeProvider>;
}
```

> ✅ Please make sure that your application is still **running** without error and **commit** the change before continuing the next step.

## **Update Material-UI version**

To use the latest version of Material-UI.

```sh
npm install @material-ui/core@next @emotion/react @emotion/styled

// or with `yarn`
yarn add @material-ui/core@next @emotion/react @emotion/styled
```

**Optional** if your project includes `@material-ui/icons` and/or `@material-ui/lab`, use the latest version of them.

```sh

> npm install @material-ui/icons@next @material-ui/lab@next

Reviewer 3: Should we include here also the emotion dependencies? And maybe link to the [Installation guide](https://deploy-preview-26948--material-ui.netlify.app/getting-started/installation/) in case they want to use styled-components.

// or with `yarn`
yarn add @material-ui/icons@next @material-ui/lab@next

> ```

Reviewer 3: We say in the description `latests`, but in the commands we use `next`. Let's align to `next` and we can change it to `latest` after we have a stable release.

Author: Good catch.

> > **Note:** if you are using `@material-ui/pickers`, it has moved to `@material-ui/lab`.

Reviewer: We could like the dedicated migration guide the pickers have https://deploy-preview-26948--material-ui.netlify.app/guides/pickers-migration/

Author: Nice, will add it in handling breaking changes

In this migration process, you will need to install/update `@material-ui/styles` (JSS) for temporary transition to v5.

```sh
npm install @material-ui/styles@next

// or with `yarn`
yarn add @material-ui/styles@next
```

> ⚠️ After this step, your application is expected to crash because the style library has changed from **JSS (v4)** to **emotion (v5)**.

## **Run Codemod**

We have prepared these codemods to ease your migration experience.

### 🪄preset-safe

> This codemod contains most of the transformers that are useful for migration. (This codemod is not idempotent, it should be apply only once per folder)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This codemod contains most of the transformers that are useful for migration. (This codemod is not idempotent, it should be applied only once per folder)
```

The very first thing you will need to do is to update your dependencies.

> ### Update React & Typescript version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update React & TypeScript version
```

Make sure that your application (using material-ui v4) is still running with minimum supported version.

- The minimum supported version of **React** was increased from v16.8.0 to v17.0.0.
- The minimum supported version of **TypeScript** was increased from v3.2 to v3.5.

  > We try to align with types released from [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) (i.e. packages published on npm under the `@types` namespace).
  > We will not change the minimum supported version in a major version of Material-UI.
  > However, we generally recommend to not use a TypeScript version older than the [lowest supported version of DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped#older-versions-of-typescript-33-and-earlier)

### Update Material-UI version

> You need to update your `package.json` to use the latest version of Material-UI and its peer dependencies.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You need to update your `package.json` to use the latest version of Material-UI and its peer dependencies.
Either edit your `package.json`:
```

> yarn add @material-ui/core@next @emotion/react @emotion/styled

Reviewer 4: Separate this into two code blocks?

```

> > After this step, your application is expected to crash because styling-engine has changed in v5.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> After this step, your application is expected to crash because the style library has changed in v5 from JSS to Emotion.
```

### Theme

- The `MuiThemeProvider` component is no longer exported from `@material-ui/core/styles`. Use `ThemeProvider` instead.

  ```diff
  -import { MuiThemeProvider } from '@material-ui/core/styles';
  +import { ThemeProvider } from '@material-ui/core/styles';
  ```

> - The function `createMuiTheme` was renamed to `createTheme` to make more intuitive to use with `ThemeProvider`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The function `createMuiTheme` was renamed to `createTheme` to make it more intuitive to use with `ThemeProvider`.
```

#### Default theme (TypeScript)

The `@material-ui/styles` package is no longer part of `@material-ui/core/styles`. If you are using `@material-ui/styles` together with `@material-ui/core` you need to add a module augmentation for the `DefaultTheme`.

```ts
// in your theme file that you call `createTheme()`
import { Theme } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

declare module '@material-ui/styles' {
  interface DefaultTheme extends Theme {}
}
```

### `@material-ui/core/styles`

#### createGenerateClassName

- The `createGenerateClassName` function is no longer exported from `@material-ui/core/styles`. You should import it directly from `@material-ui/styles`.

  ```diff
  -import { createGenerateClassName } from '@material-ui/core/styles';
  +import { createGenerateClassName } from '@material-ui/styles';
  ```

#### jssPreset

- The `jssPreset` object is no longer exported from `@material-ui/core/styles`. You should import it directly from `@material-ui/styles`.

  ```diff
  -import { jssPreset } from '@material-ui/core/styles';
  +import { jssPreset } from '@material-ui/styles';
  ```

#### makeStyles

> - The `makeStyles` JSS utility is no longer exported from `@material-ui/core/styles`. You can use `@material-ui/styles/makeStyles` instead. Make sure to add a `ThemeProvider` at the root of your application, as the `defaultTheme` is no longer available. If you are using this utility together with `@material-ui/core`, it's recommended you use the `ThemeProvider` component from `@material-ui/core/styles` instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The `makeStyles` JSS utility is no longer exported from `@material-ui/core/styles`. You can use `@material-ui/styles/makeStyles` instead. Make sure to add a `ThemeProvider` at the root of your application, as the `defaultTheme` is no longer available. If you are using this utility together with `@material-ui/core`, it's recommended that you use the `ThemeProvider` component from `@material-ui/core/styles` instead.
```

  ```diff
  -import { withTheme } from '@material-ui/core/styles';
  +import { withTheme } from '@material-ui/styles';
  +import { createTheme, ThemeProvider } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

  +const theme = createTheme();
   const MyComponent = withTheme(({ theme }) => <div>{props.theme.direction}</div>);

   function App(props) {
  -  return <MyComponent />;
  +  return <ThemeProvider theme={theme}><MyComponent {...props} /></ThemeProvider>;
   }
  ```

- Replace the `innerRef` prop with the `ref` prop. Refs are now automatically forwarded to the inner component.

  ```diff
  import * as React from 'react';
  import { withTheme  } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

  const MyComponent = withTheme(({ theme }) => <div>{props.theme.direction}</div>);

  function MyOtherComponent(props) {
    const ref = React.useRef();
  - return <MyComponent innerRef={ref} />;
  + return <MyComponent ref={ref} />;
  }
  ```

#### withWidth

> - This HOC was removed. There's an alternative using the `useMediaQuery` hook on [this page](/components/use-media-query/#migrating-from-withwidth).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- This HOC was removed. There's an alternative using the [`useMediaQuery` hook](/components/use-media-query/#migrating-from-withwidth).
```

> > At this point, you should see your application running without crash (some UI differences are expected). Next step is to go through component breaking changes below. In case that your application is still crash with unknown error, [open an issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/new/choose) in material-ui repository.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> At this point, you should see your application running without crashing. (Some UI differences are expected). The next step is to go through the component breaking changes below. In the event that your application is still crashing with unknown errors, [open an issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/new/choose) in the Material-UI GitHub repo.
```

## Handling breaking changes

### Supported browsers and node versions

The targets of the default bundle have changed.
The exact versions will be pinned on release from the browserslist query `"> 0.5%, last 2 versions, Firefox ESR, not dead, not IE 11, maintained node versions"`.

The default bundle supports the following minimum versions:

<!-- #stable-snapshot -->

- Node 12 (up from 8)
- Chrome 84 (up from 49)
- Edge 85 (up from 14)
- Firefox 78 (up from 52)
- Safari 13 (macOS) and 12.2 (iOS) (up from 10)
- and more (see [.browserslistrc (`stable` entry)](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/HEAD/.browserslistrc#L11))

It no longer supports IE 11.
If you need to support IE 11, check out our [legacy bundle](/guides/minimizing-bundle-size/#legacy-bundle).

### non-ref-forwarding class components

Support for non-ref-forwarding class components in the `component` prop or as immediate `children` has been dropped. If you were using `unstable_createStrictModeTheme` or didn't see any warnings related to `findDOMNode` in `React.StrictMode` then you don't need to do anything.

> Otherwise check out the ["Caveat with refs" section in our composition guide](/guides/composition/#caveat-with-refs) to find out how to migrate.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Otherwise check out the [Caveat with refs](/guides/composition/#caveat-with-refs) section in the composition guide to find out how to migrate.
```

  +import { DistributiveOmit } from '@material-ui/types';
  ```

## Migrate JSS to emotion

> We recommend to do this step once you go through all of the breaking changes above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We recommend to do this after you have completed upgrading for the breaking changes above.
```

  - const useStyles = makeStyles((theme) => ({
  -   root: {
  -     // root css
  -   },
  -   cta: {
  -     // cta css
  -   },
  -   footer: {
  -     // footer css
  -   },
  - }))

  + const classes = {
  +   root: 'Marketing-root',
  +   cta: buttonClasses.root, // buttonClasses is typed safe
  +   footer: 'Marketing-footer',
  + }

  + const Root = styled('div')((theme) => ({
  +   // root css,
  +   [`& .${classes.cta}`]: {
  +     // cta css
  +   },
  +   [`& .${classes.footer}]: {
  +     // cta footer
  +   }
  + }))

  function App() {
  - const classes = useStyles();
    return (
  -   <div>
  +   <Root>
        <div>
          <img />
          <div>
            <Button className={classes.cta}>Get started</Button>
          </div>
        </div>
        <footer className={classes.footer}>
          ...
        </footer>
  +   </Root>
  -   </div>
    )
  }
  ```

> This approach touch only the styling part but increase CSS specificity.

### 2. Use [tss-react](https://github.com/garronej/tss-react)

The API is similar to JSS `makeStyles` but work with emotion.

  <!-- Add material-ui component migration example -->

> > **Note:** this library is not maintained by Material-UI. If you have any issue regarding to it, please open an issue in [tss-react repo](https://github.com/garronej/tss-react/issues/new)

Reviewer: No shorthands

```suggestion
> **Note:** this library is not maintained by Material-UI. If you have any issue regarding to it, please open an issue in [tss-react repository](https://github.com/garronej/tss-react/issues/new).
```

> > 💡 Once you migrate all of the styling, remove unneccesary `@material-ui/styles` by

Reviewer: This looks out of context with the `> `

```suggestion
💡 Once you migrate all of the styling, remove unnecessary `@material-ui/styles` by
```

```sh
npm uninstall @material-ui/styles

// or with `yarn`
yarn remove @material-ui/styles
```

## **Troubleshooting**

> ### Storybook emotion with MUI v5

Reviewer: We never use MUI so far in the docs

```suggestion
### Storybook emotion with v5
```

If your project use Storybook v6.x, you will need to update `.storybook/main.js` webpack config to use the most recent version of emotion.

```js
// .storybook/main.js

const path = require('path');
const toPath = (filePath) => path.join(process.cwd(), filePath);

module.exports = {
  webpackFinal: async (config) => {
    return {
      ...config,
      resolve: {
        ...config.resolve,
        alias: {
          ...config.resolve.alias,
          '@emotion/core': toPath('node_modules/@emotion/react'),
          'emotion-theming': toPath('node_modules/@emotion/react'),
        },
      },
    };
  },
};
```

> For more details, checkout [this issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/24282#issuecomment-796755133) on github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, checkout [this issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/24282#issuecomment-796755133) on GitHub.
```

### Cannot read property `scrollTop` of null

This error comes from `Fade`, `Grow`, `Slide`, `Zoom` components due to missing DOM Node.

You need to make sure that the children forward ref to DOM.

> ```js

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```jsx
````

// ❌ This will cause error. don't use Fragment as a child
<Fade in>

>   <>
>     <CustomComponent />
>   </>

Reviewer: To avoid a possible confusion?

```suggestion
  <React.Fragment>
    <CustomComponent />
  </React.Fragment>
```

</Fade>;

// ❌ This will cause error because `CustomComponent` does not forward ref to DOM
function CustomComponent() {
  return <div>...</div>;
}

<Fade in>
  <CustomComponent />
</Fade>;
```

```js
// ✅ Fixed by using `React.forwardRef` and pass to DOM.
const CustomComponent = React.forwardRef(function CustomComponent(props, ref) {
  return (
    <div ref={ref}>
      ...
    </div>
  )
})

<Fade in>
  <CustomComponent />
</Fade>
```

> For more details, checkout [this issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/27154)

Reviewer: Consistency

```suggestion
For more details, checkout [this issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/27154) on GitHub.
```
